`Load Balancer` is like a traffic cop that distributes network traffic across multiple backend servers so that:
- No single server gets overwhelmed.
- If any server gets down then LB won't send any request to that server.
- System stays high availaible.
- Latency remain low.
- Make horizonatlly scaling easy.

Think of it as - User Request --> LB --> one of the servers.

### Why LB needed?
- If request send randomly then one of the server might gets too much request which can make that server crash.
- If any server is down, Lb won't forward the request to that server.


### We can add LB in all 3 places
1. Between User and web-server(client).
2. Between web-server and application server(server).
3. Between app server and database.

## LB Strategies

### Round Robin Method
- This method cycles through a list of servers and sends each new request to the next server. When it reaches the end of the list, it starts over at the beginning. 
- A -> B -> c -> A -> B -> C -> A . . . .
- It is most useful when the servers are of equal specification and there are not many persistent connections.

### Least Connection Method
- Directs traffic to the server with the fewest active connections.
- This approach is quite useful when there are a large number of persistent client connections which are unevenly distributed between the servers.


### Least Response Time Method
- This algorithm directs traffic to the server with the fewest active connections and the lowest average response time.

### Least Bandwidth Method 
- This method selects the server that is currently serving the least amount of traffic measured in megabits per second (Mbps).

### Weighted Round Robin Method 
- The weighted round-robin scheduling is designed to better handle servers with different processing capacities. 
- Each server is assigned a weight (an integer value that indicates the processing capacity). 
- Servers with higher weights receive new connections before those with less weights and servers with higher weights get more connections than those with less weights.