# How JavaScript Works?

## Global Execution Context

When any source code executes, it create 2 phases i.e. Memory phase & Execution phase
- Memory phase : reading and assigning a value to all the variables declared with var, let & const i.e. <b>"undefined"</b>
- Execution phase : start executing the code line by line.

Once all code executed GEC also gets poped from stack.

### Functions declared with just <b>function</b> keyword will also occupy space in memory phase (stored as full function). When executed function will creates it's own execution context i.e. Funtion Execution context.
- creates separate <b>Memory Phase</b> && <b>Execution Phase</b>
- when executes full function, this local execution context will get poped  from GEC.

## Hoisting & TDZ
```bash
Hoisting is the default behavior of javascript where all variables and funtions declaration are move to the top of their scope during the memory allocation phase.
```
```bash
Temporal Dead Zone(TDZ) refers to the period during which let & const variables exist in the scope but cannot be accessed until ther're declared.
```
## Call Stack
It is a fundamental Data Structure that manages the execution of code in javaScript synchronously . 
- Follows LIFO principles(<b>Last In First Out</b>), meaning code that is pushed at last of call stack will get poped first.
- Never wait for anything.
```bash
How it works?
-> when a JS program starts, it created a GEC and pushed into call stack for it's execution.
-> whenever a function is invoked, a new FEC will be created and pushed inside the call stack. If nested function calls are invoked, they'r also push inside the call stack
-> call stack starts executing them with LIFO principle without stopping, until all FEC and GEC gets popped out of Call Stack.
```
## Callback Queue
Also known as <b>Task Queue</b> or <b>Macrotask Queue</b> is a fundamental data structure in JS, particularly important for handling asynchronous operations.
- Follow FIFO principles(<b>First In First Out</b>)

## Microtask Queue
- It is also a fundamental data structure in JS, for handling asynchronous operations
- follows FIFO
- But it has more prioprity than callback queue.
- Event loop will empty the microtask queue calls then only EL will start pushing Callback Queue calls into the call stack.

## Event Loop
Event loop is a fundamental mechanism in JS, used for handling asynchronous operations despite being a single threaded language.
- The event loop continuosly monitors call stack, microtask and callback queues.
- It first checks, if call stack is empty or not, If empty then checks in microtask queue and process until MQ is empty then checks in task queue and process untill TQ is empty .
-  Event loop takes first call that is added to the queue and move it to call stack to execute it.

## Starving
When there are lot of operations in microtask queue, because Microtask Queue has higher priority over Macrotask Queue(Callback Queue). It will result in delay of Callback Queue operations.
```bash
Solutions that could solve this issues are:
1. Web Workers for CPU intensive task.
2. Manage the long-running tasks by breaking up.
```