# Shallow Copy
A shallow copy creates a new object or array, but only copies the top-level properties or elements by value. For nested objects or arrays, it copies the references to those nested structures, not the structures themselves. This means:
- `Primitive values` (numbers, strings, booleans, null, undefined) are copied by value, creating independent copies.
```js
let a = 5;
let b = a;
b += 5;

console.log(a,b) // OUTPUT 5 10 
```
- `Object references` (for nested objects/arrays) are copied. Both the original and the shallow copy will point to the same nested object/array in memory.

```js
let obj = {
    name:"Nishant",
    address : {
        city:"ND"
    }
}

let copyObj = {...obj};


let arr = [
  { name: 'Nishant', address: { city: 'ND' } },
  { name: 'Raj', address: { city: 'MP' } }
]
    
let copyArr = [...arr];
```

- `Consequence`: Modifying a nested object/array in the shallow copy will also affect the original object, and vice-versa, because they share the same underlying data.

```js
obj.address.city = "Chandigarh"  // changing in original object

console.log(copyObj)  // city of original object will get changed

arr[0].name = "Lenovo"  // changing in orignal arr

console.log(copyArr)  // name of original arr[0] will get changed
```

## Basically Shallow copy does not copy the values fully independent in case of non-primitive data types. To copy non-primitive we use `Deep Copy`.

# Deep Copy
A deep copy creates a completely independent copy of an object or array, including all nested objects and arrays. It recursively copies all levels of the data structure, ensuring that no references are shared between the original and the copy. This means:
- `All values`, including primitive values and nested objects/arrays, are copied by value, creating entirely new instances in memory.
- `Consequence`: Modifying any part of the deep copy will not affect the original object, and vice-versa, as they are entirely separate entities.

```js
let copyObj = JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(obj));

obj.address.city = "Chandigarh"


let copyArr = JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(arr));

arr[0].name = "Lenovo"
```