With the increase in request to the server machine, processing of request will consume CPU, memory includes RAM, drive or whatever. As request will grow consumption of resources will also grow. At some point when request becomes overloaded, server also become overwhemled and this can cause server crash situation. To overcome we have different approaches to follow.

# Scalability
Meaning system can easily scale up/down when required.
### Vertical Scaling
```
1. Adding/Removing resources in a particular machine.
2. Resources like - RAM, Disc Storage, CPU(Threads & Core), etc.
3. More Expensive than horizontal scaling.
4. Preffered on Monolith Architecture and Relational Databases.
5. When converting from small machine to bigger, can cause downtime.
```
### Horizontal Scaling
```
1. Adding/Removing machines for scaling up and down.
3. Less Expensive than vertical scaling.
4. Preffered on Microservices Architecture and No-Relational Databases.
```


# Reliability
Reliability is the ability to perform task when some of hardware or software components are not working. e.g. 
- Due to some issue cart is not working, the cart module should not affect other modules.
- Uploaded images in my google drive, due to fire data got erased from the database of google, but there are more copy of original database with google so that drive can become reliable.

#### Reliability can be achieved by `redundancy`.


# Availability
Availability is the time a system is operational & ready to perform required operations.

# Consistency
All nodes should view the same data e.g. an Excel sheet is opened in 4 systems, whenever any user change in the sheet it should reflect in other 3 users as well.

In a `Distributed system`, all instances should have same data for a particular object.

`Distributed system` - Multiple system connected over network.